So this is why we use state machines and
state charts.
Now, first of all, state machines
are definitely not a new concept.
They've been around since, well,
honestly since almost a century ago.
In fact, these computers that we work on
in all of our electronics and pretty much
everything, all of our software,
would not work without state machines.
You could consider programming
languages state machines,
you could consider the embedded
electronics within your computer,
the circuitry,
those are state machines as well.
And so state machines are such
an important model in computer science.
However, they're not
a very easy model to grok.
And that's because it's sort
of a mathematical model.
And if you go to Wikipedia and
you search finite state machine,
you're going to find a lot of
really confusing math terms.
But I promise you,
it's worth the learning curve.
So why would we want to use
state machines and state charts?
One of my favorite examples is
the Curiosity Rover by NASA
was actually programmed
using a lot of state charts.
And they found a lot of benefits to this,
such as visualized modeling,
which we're going to see
a demonstration of in a little bit,
where the state machines and
state charts you make can be visualized.
In that way, even if you give it to
someone who doesn't quite understand code
or might not be too technical, they'll be
able to sort of understand the general
flow of the logic and
be able to spot errors easily.
Such as saying, this date is wrong,
this transition is wrong,
we need to change this
without knowing code.
And so
these precise diagrams are two ways.
The diagrams describe the state
machine in completeness.
So they describe every single state and
every single transition that could happen
between the states, and the logic that's
represented in the diagram is exactly
the logic that the code will enable.
NASA also used automatic code generation,
in which they were
able to programmatically draw these
state charts and state machines and
also have that generate C++ code.
We're not gonna do that in this course,
don't worry.
There's also comprehensive test coverage.
So when you know all of the states and all
the transitions between the states, you're
able to map out every single possible way
that you can interact with the system.
And so for coding something that's
billions of dollars, such as
the Curiosity Rover and having a seal
deployment where if anything goes wrong,
you just wasted a billion dollars,
that's a very, very important thing.
Because you wanna be able to
predict everything that can happen,
especially in an unfamiliar
territory such as Mars.
And also, the accommodation of late
breaking requirements and changes.
That's very important points, too,
because we don't typically
know all of the features and
all of the use cases our app is
going to have at the very beginning.
If you do, you're very lucky.
But if you don't, we need some way
of introducing those changes and
being able to see how those changes
affects everything else that we've already
represented in the state machines and
state charts.
And so this becomes a lot easier
when you have a visual model and
you have a very precise diagram
showing you what can affect what.
Instead of having code where
the logic is spread everywhere and
you have millions of possibilities.